Angular-
Angular is open source web framework and development platform, for building web, desktop, mobile applications.
It is built on Typescript and maintained by Google.
It is used to create single page applications (SPA) and progressive web applications (PWA).
Single Page Application (SPA) is a web application that loads a single HTML page and 
dynamically updates the content as the user interacts with the app without requiring a full page reload.
Progressive Web Application (PWA) is a web application that uses modern web technologies to provide
a native app-like experience to users, including offline capabilities, push notifications, and fast loading times.
 
Angular JS is the first version of Angular, released in 2010. It is based on JavaScript 
and uses a Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. 
Angular JS is no longer actively maintained, 
and it is recommended to use Angular (version 2 and above) for new projects.
 
 
ng new project-name
This command is used to create a new Angular project with the specified name.
 
ng serve
This command is used to start the development server and serve the Angular application.
It runs the application on port 4200 by default, 
and you can access it in the browser at http://localhost:4200.
 
ng build
This command is used to build the Angular application for production. 
It compiles the application and optimizes it for deployment.
 
npm start
This command is used to start the Angular application using the npm package manager.
 
----------------------------------
 
Angular 21 Project structure-
src/ - it contains the components, services, template and css files of the application..
 
if you want to generate the other components, services, directives, pipes etc. 
you can use the Angular CLI command ng generate or ng g followed by the type of artifact 
you want to create and its name. For example:
ng generate component component-name
 
Components-
COmponents mail building blocks of an Angular application.
A component is a TypeScript class that is decorated with the @Component decorator.
The @Component decorator provides metadata about the component, such as its selector, template, and styles
The selector is a CSS selector that identifies the component in the HTML template.
 
- Typescript class that contains behaviors such as handling user input and fetching data from a server.
-Component must have the HTML template that controls what renders into the DOM 
-Also, CSS selector that defines how the component is used in the HTML template.
 
 
Component Lifecycle-
A component's lifecycle refers to the sequence of events that happens between component creation and destruction.
Each step represents a different part of Angular's process for rendering components and managing their state.
 
1. Constructor- The constructor is called when the component is created. 
It is used to initialize the component's properties and inject dependencies.
 
2. ngOnInit- runs once after angular has initialized all the component's input
 
 
Component Communication-
@Input and @Output decorators are used to facilitate communication between components in Angular.
@Input is used to pass data from a parent component to a child component, 
Parent Component----Data Flow---->Child Component
 
 
while @Output is used to emit events from a child component to a parent component.
Child Component----Event Flow---->Parent Component
Child componnet uses the @Output decorator to raise an event to notify the parent component of the change.
To raise an event , an @Output decorator must have the type of EventEmitter, 
which is a class provided by @angular/core that allows you to create and emit custom events.
 
Data Binding / Interpolation- it refers to embedding the expressions into markup text.
- By default Interpolation uses double curly braces {{}} to bind data from the component to the template.
- It is used to display dynamic data in the template, such as the value of a variable
- Using Data binding we can bind the data from the component to the template and also bind the events from the template to the component.
 
Angular support one way and two way data binding.
One way data binding is used to bind data from the component to the template.
One way Data binding can be achieved using interpolation, property binding and event binding.
Interpolation is used to bind data from the component to the template, using double curly braces {{}}.
Property binding is used to bind data from the component to the template, using square brackets [].
    - proprety binding helps to set the values for properties of html elements, directives and components.
    - Use Property Binding to do things like toggle the disabled state of a button, 
    set the source of an image, or apply CSS classes conditionally.
    - here this binding moves the value in one direction, from the component's property into
    target element's property.
Event binding is used to bind events from the template to the component, using parentheses ().
 
 
Two way data binding is used to bind data from the component to the template 
and also bind the events from the template to the component.
It can be implemented with or without using the ngModel directive.
Without ngModel directive - this is possible by using property binding and event binding together.
$event is a special variable that contains the event object that is passed to the event handler when an event is triggered.
 
 
Angular Directives-
- Directives are built in classes in Angular  using which we can add behavior and 
we can maniulate the DOM elements in the template.
- three types of directives in Angular are:
1. Component Directives- these are the directives that are used to create components in Angular.
2. Structural Directives- these are the directives that are used to change the structure of the
DOM by adding or removing elements from the DOM.
Built in- structural directives are *ngIf, *ngFor, *ngSwitch.
3. Attribute Directives- these are the directives that are used to change the appearance or
behavior of an element, component or another directive.
ngClass - add or remove CSS classes based on conditions.
ngStyle - add or remove inline styles based on conditions.
ngModel - used for two way data binding in forms.
 
Angular Pipes-
- Pipes are nothing but angular functions to use in template expressions to accept a value 
and return a transformed value.
- Use pipes to transform strings, currency amounts, dates, and other data for display.
- Build In Angular Pipes are:
1. DatePipe- used to format date values in the template.
2. CurrencyPipe- used to format currency values in the template.
3. DecimalPipe- used to format decimal values in the template.
4. PercentPipe- used to format percentage values in the template.
5. JsonPipe- used to convert a JavaScript object into a JSON string for display in the template.
6. SlicePipe- used to create a new array or string containing a subset of the elements.
7. UpperCasePipe- used to transform a string to uppercase in the template.
8. LowerCasePipe- used to transform a string to lowercase in the template.
9. TitleCasePipe- used to transform a string to title case in the template.
10. AsyncPipe- used to subscribe to an Observable or Promise and return the latest value it
    has emitted.
11. KeyValuePipe- used to transform an object or a Map into an array of key-value pairs 
for display in the template.    
 